# P15: Why is growth a necessary in business?

Q: *Why is growth a necessity in business? Why can't a business just be self-sustaining?*
问题: 为什么对企业来说发展是必需的？为什么企业不能仅仅满足于自给自足？

A: That's a great question and underlying it is another equally important
question, which is: why do companies keep having to take risks -- with new
investments, new business partners, diversification etc. -- in order just to
survive? Of course, if you are a listed company, the simple answer is that need
to grow because that is what your investors expect. **They have bet on your
company growing and becoming more profitable and their shares rising in value as
a result of that.**
回答: 这是个很重要的问题，这个问题还包含了另一个同样重要的问题，那就是为什么企业为了生存要不断冒险--进行新的投资，与新的商业伙伴合作，产生多样化，等等。当然如果你所在的企业是上市公司，简单的回答就是公司的成长壮大是投资者所期望的。他们把赌注压在公司的状大上，希望公司盈利不断增长，其股票价值会不断提升。

But share price is not the only driver. Companies need to grow so that they have
founds available to invest in the development of new products to meet a changing
business environment. Disruptive technology can come along and force ou to
change because there is no longer a demand for the products and services that
you have traditionally offered. **A good example of this is Nokia, which did not
react quickly enough to the revolution in smart-phone technology in the
mid-2000s.** Nokia already had the best-selling traditional mobile phone, the
3310, on the market, but was quickly left behind by companies with better
products, such as Apple and Samsung. Within five years Nokia's sales collapsed
and the company was forced to look for partnerships to rescue the business.
但股票价格并不是唯一的动力。公司要发展壮大这样才有资本投资开发新的产品以适应不断变化的商业环境。颠覆性的技术随时会到来，迫使公司不得不进行变革，因为市场对传统的产品和服务不再有需求了。最能说明这个问题的例子就是诺基亚，诺基亚未能在2005年前后对智能手机技术的革命做出快速反应。诺基亚当时有一款销售火爆的老款手机3310，但诺基亚很快就被拥有更好产品的公司如苹果和三星甩在后头了。之后，诺基亚在其后5年中销售量出现崩溃式滑坡，公司不得不寻找合作伙伴以拯救公司。

That is quite an extreme example and often changes in the market are more subtle
and gradual. **Companies can cover themselves against a slowing market by
diversifying rather than completely changing their business model.** They can do
this either by setting up new businesses or subsidiaries themselves, or simply
by expanding through takeovers and mergers. **This latter option, also known as
a form of non-organic growth or growing through acquisition, is seen as a
quicker route to expansion.** Tata Steel, which has purchased a number of
foreign steel producers in recent years, is a good example of this. But it is
not by any means a risk-free strategy. Mergers and acquisitions present
management challenges, such as integrating different company cultures,
restructuring the business and often making savings that involve reducing the
workforce.
这是个极端的例子。市场的变化往往更微妙更缓慢些，公司可以通过商业模式的多样化而不是彻底改变商业模式来抵挡下滑的市场。他们可以成立新的公司或子公司，或仅靠收购和兼并扩大企业。后一种选择，非有机增长也即通过收购手段来实现增长，是促使公司得以扩张壮大的更快捷的方法。塔塔钢铁公司就是一个很好的例子，它最近几年收购了好几家国外钢铁厂，但这种策略并非毫无风险。合并和收购带来了管理上的挑战，比如如何融合不同的公司文化，如何重组企业以及如何节省费用，而节省费用往往牵涉到员工裁减。

For these reasons, organic growth is often seen as a better option. **It is less
risky and allows the company to grow at a reasonable rate, and is thus the
preferred approach for many small businesses.** However, it approach also has
its flaws. **It requires time and patience and is not necessarily a cheaper
route to grow.** In 2013 Coca-cola spent $3.4 billion, or 7% of its annual
turnover, on advertising. That's way above the industry average, because
Coca-Cola knows that the only way to grow organically is to keep reaching more
customers and that means continuous global advertising.
因为这些原因，有机增长被认为是更好的企业发展选择。这种策略风险更小，允许企业以合理的速度发展，因而这种策略更受到许多小企业的青睐。然而，这种策略也有它的缺陷。它需要时间和耐心，对公司的发展壮大来说成本未必就更低。2013年可口可乐公司在广告上花了34亿美元，相当于去年营业额的7%。这个数字远远超过了一般企业花在广告上的费用，可口可乐公司之所以愿意花费如此巨额的广告费是因为可口可乐公司知道有益增长的唯一方法是不断获取更多的客户，而这意味着不断增长的全球广告费用。
