# P48: Understanding financial statements 了解财务报表

To make good investment decisions, you need to understand the business you're
investing in. Knowing when to buy and when to sell depends not only on
understanding the market in general but also the financial health of the
company. Your first port of call: the anual report.
要做出明智的投资决策，你有必要了解需要投资的企业。什么时候出售、什么时候购买哪个企业的股票，仅仅依靠对市场的一般的情况的了解是不足以作出判断的，还要了解该企业的财务状况是否良好。你首先要看的是年度报告。

This contains the accounts -- the balance sheet, the income statement and the
cashflow statement. We'll deal with just the first two here because they are the
most important. With all financial statements, you must compare the sets of
figures from you must compare the sets of figures from recent years to see how
the company is developing.
年度报告包含了财务报表--资产负债表、损益表和现金流表。我们在这里将对前两项做深入了解，因为它们是最重要的。对所有的财务报表你必须把最近几年的数字进行对比，从而了解公司是如何发展的。

**The balance sheet** is a snapshot of a company's financial position at a given
moment. Imagine tomorrow you make a list of everything you own (including what
others owe to you) -- house, car, money in the bank, etc. These are your
**assets**. Set against these everything that you owe - mortgage, credit card
bills, etc. These are your **liabilities**. The two columns are what make up the
balance sheet.
资产负债表让你快速了解公司某一特定时期的财务状况。假设明天你列出你所拥有的一切东西(包括别人欠你的)--房子、汽车、存在银行里的钱等。这些就是你的资产。把这些和你所欠的--抵押、信用卡账单等对比。你所欠的就是你的债务。这两栏构成了资产负债表。

With a company balance sheet you also need to consider the shareholders' equity
(the shares owned in the company by others). The basic equation is `asserts =
liabilities + shareholders' equity`.
除了资产负债表，你还要考虑股东的股票(别人在这家公司所拥有的股票)。基本的方程式是:资产=负债-股东的股票。

THe **fixed** assets of a company are its buildings and equipment. As an
investor you should pay paticular attention to two kinds of current asset -- the
stock and the accounts receivable (money owed to the company by customers). If
the amount of stock is growing fast, then it could be that stock isn't moving.
If the accounts receiveable figure is large, then the **debtors** aren't paying
their bills quickly enough. On the liability side look to see whether the debt,
both short and long term, is increasing. Is the company borrowing more and if
so, why? Read the notes to the accounts -- maybe they will explain anything
unusual. Look also at accounts **payable** to see if the company is paying its
creditors on time.
公司的固定资产是公司的大楼和设备。作为投资者你必须特别关注两种流动资产，即公司库存和应收账款(客户欠公司的钱)。如果存货迅速增加，那么表明公司货物没有流通起来。如果应收账款的数目巨大，那么表明债务人没有及时偿付账单。在负债方面你要看债务(不论短期债务还是长期债务)是否在增加。公司是否还在借更多的钱，如果是，需要知道为什么。看看账目的记录，也许它们能解释不正常的地方。同时也要看应付账款，以确保公司及时付给债权人。

**The income statement** (sometimes also called the profit and **loss** account)
shows the company's income and **expenditure** over a given period. It lists all
the money generated by sales (the turnover) plus any other income, minus all the
costs involved in running the business. This produces the gross profit that
tells you if the business is healthy and operationally **profitable**. **Net**
profit is the proverbial bottom line. It represents profit after tax and
interest have been paid and is the amount that can be distributed to its
shareholders in **dividends** (though generally a part of this profit is
retained for re-investment). 
所得计算书(有时也称为损益表)显示了公司的某个时期的收入和支出。它列出了公司销售的所有所得(营业额)，加上公司其他收入，扣除所有经营成本，这样得出毛利润，毛利润表明公司是否进行良好。纯利润表明公司在盈利，是众所周知的底线，它代表着税后利润，利息已支付，是付给股东的红利(虽然利润的一部分要留存作为再投资)。

As you study the income statements of recent years, get out your calculator and
do some sums.
研究近几年的损益表时应拿出计算器，自己算一算。

Are sales growing? Are costs growing faster then sales or is the profit margin
being maintained? What are the forecasts for future growth? Did any of the
income come from the sales of assets?
销售量在增长吗？成本比销售额增长更快吗和利润有没有保持？将来会有怎样的发展？是否有部分收入来自于资产的销售？

