# P5: The Gig Economy `零工经济`

Whatever you call it -- the Gig Economy, the Freedom Economy or the Freelance
Economy -- the trend for people to be self-employed, rather than salaried
employees, is a growing global phenomenon. In Europe, independent workers are
the fastest growing sector of the workforce; in India, freelance workers now
stand at around 15 million people; while in China, an increasing number of
workers are choosing freelance work over **permanent posts** because of the
flexibility it offers them. This flexibility is also very attractive to employers
who can bring in skilled talent as and when they need them, rather than
recruiting or training their own employees which can be both costly and
time-consuming.
不管你怎么称呼，称呼是零工经济，自由经济抑或是自由职业经济，
做自由职业的工作而不是拿固定薪水的员工已日益成为全球趋势。
在欧洲，独立职业人是劳动力中增长最快的；
在印度，自由职业者现在大约有1500万人；
而在中国，越来越多的职业人选择自由职业而不是固定的职业，
因为自由职业提供了更多的弹性，这种弹性对雇主来说也非常具有吸引力，
因为雇主可以随时随地在需要的时候聘用技术人才，而不需要聘用和培训自己的员工，
聘用和培训自己的员工既花钱又花时间。

At the heart of this trend is the digital revolution which has not only created
new jobs in programming, web design and online marketplaces, but has also
allowed workers to choose where, when and how they work. There are rewards for
those who opt for this path. A UK study found that self-employed people
typically earn double the amount of their salaried counterparts. But the most
obvious **incentive** is the independence freelancing brings. So it is not
surprising that it appeals particularly to the younger generation, many of whom
have no particular desire to manage other people or to be managed by them. In
some cases, they feel they have no choice, either because they are not enough
suitable permanent jobs to apply for or because the competition for those jobs
is too fierce. 
这种趋势的核心是数字革命不仅产生了程序设计、网页设计以及网络市场方面的新工作，
同时也允许职业者可以选择何时、何地以及如何工作。选择这种工作方式的人获益颇丰。
一项英国的研究表明，自由职业者所挣的钱是做同样工作的固定职业者的两倍。
然而，最诱惑人的还是自由职业所带来的独立性。
所以，毫不奇怪，这种工作方式对年轻人特别有吸引力，
因为众多的年轻人不愿意管理别人，也不愿意被人管理。
但在一些情况下这种工作方式是不得已的选择，要不是因为没有足够的适当的稳定工作，
要不就是这些工作的竞争特别激烈。

But freedom comes at a cost. Job insecurity -- not knowing where your next 'gig'
or dollar for that matter, is going to come from -- can cause stress and
anxiety. Freelance work is not for everyone. If you are more of a risk-taker by
**disposition**, self-employment can be an exciting **proposition**. But if you
are someone who worries about job security, finding more permanent and stable
employment may be the better option. 
但自由是有代价的。
你不知道你的下一个“零工”或下一次收入来自哪里，
这种工作的不稳定性会产生紧张和焦虑。
自由职业并不适合所有的人。
如果你天性喜欢冒险，那么自由职业会是令人激动的工作。
但如果你担心工作的稳定性，找个更长期更稳定的工作恐怕就是更好的选择。
